#labels Featured
= CopyForce Command Line -- All Database Versions =

This page documents the command line syntax for all versions of CopyForce.

The switches common to all database versions are listed first, followed by database
specific switches.


= Common Switches =

The following command line switches are supported by all concrete implementations of CopyForce:
 
<table border="2">
  <tr align="left" valign="top">
  <th>Command Line Switch</th><th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr align="left" valign="top"><td>-salesforce string</td>
  <td>Salesforce database from which data will be copied. This value can be a:
  <ul>
  <li>Name of a Salesforce profile defined in $HOME/sqlforce.ini</li>
  <li>Comma separated string containing [Production||Sandbox],Username,Password,SecurityToken</li>
  </ul>
  Examples:
  <ul>
  <li>-salesforce Sandbox</li>
  <li>-salesforce Production,gsmithfarmer@gmail.com,holyMoly,99898aasf89asf</li>
  </ul>
  </td>
  </tr>
  
   <tr align="left" valign="top"><td>-schema</td>
   <td>Create the Salesforce schema in the destination databases. Note that if a schema object already exists in the destination then CopyForce
   will skip it automatically.
   </td>
   </tr>
   
   <tr align="left" valign="top"><td>-include string</td>
   <td>Comma separated list of tables (or regular expressions) to copy from Salesforce. By default, all tables all included. Examples:
   <ul>
   <li>-include "Account,Contact"</li>
   <li>-include "Prod.{{{*}}},Price.{{{*}}}"</li>
   </ul>
   </td>
   </tr>
   
   
   <tr align="left" valign="top"><td>-exclude string</td>
   <td>Comma separated list of tables (or regular expressions) to EXCLUDE from the copy from Salesforce. By default, no tables are excluded. Examples:
   <ul>
   <li>-exclude "Attachment"</li>
   <li>-exclude "Attachment,Software.{{{*}}}"</li>
   </ul>
   </td>
   </tr>
   
   <tr align="left" valign="top"><td>-config file</td>
   <td>XML file that specifies what to copy/exclude from Salesforce. This file should be used when the simple <i>-include</i> and <i>-exclude</i> are insufficient 
   to represent the parameters for the copy. See later in this documentation for the format of a configuration file.
   </td>
   </tr>
   
   <tr align="left" valign="top"><td>-gui</td>
   <td>Display a UI that indicates the progress of the copy. By default, progress is written to stdout.
   </td>
   </tr>
   
   <tr align="left" valign="top"><td>-silent</td>
   <td>Do not display progress messages.
   </td>
   </tr>
   
   <tr align="left" valign="top"><td>-timeout ms</td>
   <td>Set the timeout value for calls to Salesforce. The default is 1,000,000 and rarely needs to changed.
   </td>
   </tr>
   
   <tr align="left" valign="top"><td>-buffer mBytes</td>
   <td>Set the number of megabytes CopyForce will buffer from Salesforce before writing them to the destination database.
   </td>
   </tr>
  </table>

= SQL Server Additional Switches =
The CopyForceSqlServer.jar version adds the following command line switches.
<table border="2">
 <tr align="left" valign="top">
 <th>Command Line Switch</th><th>Description</th>
 </tr>
 <tr align="left" valign="top"><td>-sqlserver string</td>
 <td>Connection string for accessing SQL Server.
 Examples:
 <ul>
 <li>-sqlserver  "//localhost;databaseName=sqlforcetest;username=me;password=caleb&noah;"</li>
 </ul>
 Internally, the connection string will be passed to the SQL Server <i>DriverManager.getConnection()</i> method (prefixed by <i>jdbc:sqlserver:</i>).
 </td>
 </tr>
 </table>

= H2 Additional Switches =
The CopyForceH2.jar version adds the following command line switches.
<table border="2">
 <tr align="left" valign="top">
 <th>Command Line Switch</th><th>Description</th>
 </tr>
 <tr align="left" valign="top"><td>-h2 string</td>
 <td>Connection string for accessing an existing (or creating a new) H2 database.
 Examples:
 <ul>
 <li>-h2 C:/tmp/practiceH2</li>
 </ul>
 </td>
 </tr>
 
   <tr align="left" valign="top"><td>-h2user string</td>
   <td>User name for the H2 database.
   </td>
   </tr>
   
   <tr align="left" valign="top"><td>-h2password string</td>
   <td>Password for the H2 database.
   </td>
   </tr>
   </table>
= Configuration Files =
The list of objects copied from Salesforce can optionally be controlled by a configuration file (see the -config command line switch). A configuration file
  must be in the following form:
{{{
  <CopyForce>
  	<include table="nameMatchingPattern" where="optional Where Clause" >
  	<exclude table="nameMatchingPattern" >
  </CopyForce>
}}}
  where:
  * The {{{<include>}}} element indicates tables that will be include in the copy. The name attribute is a regular expression that will be used to find matching
  table names (a plain table name (like Account) is, of course, a regular expression. The optional <i>where</i> attribute is should be a string that can be appended to a
  <i>WHERE</i> clause for SOQL against the table.
  * The {{{<exclude>}}} element indicates tables that should be excluded from the copy.

Example: Copy all tables except Attachments:
{{{
  <CopyForce>
  	<include table=".*"  />
  	<exclude table="Attachment" />
  </CopyForce>
}}}